# Worklog

## #4

Started mapping out all of my initial ideas for how to achieve a **KI/KD**
certification. Got through some initial changelog details and really got into
details around a new **Semantic Versioning** proposal. Mainly since projects on
**NPM** are still at major version 0 and being used in production. Announcements
should happen at `0.1.0` instead of `1.0.0`. And then Major version represents
the number of breaking changes you have introduced. And Minor represents the
number of feature releases you have had that people will care about and need to
be publicized.


## #3

Setup the initial readme document with some details on how the project came into
inception. The next thing I'll do is start rough drafting out some of the checks
and tools that I'll need to consider and incorporate across the board. Should be
fun.


## #1, #2

WOOT!!! Getting into a new side project is always exciting... sort of. I'm
stuck in this side project rabbit hole that I'm hoping I can pull out of. It is
stressful and sad, but if anything I'm gaining a lot of experience doing it so I
just gotta keep trudging forward and getting faster and better.

So what is this about? Well **KIKD** stands for **Kontinuous
Integration/Kontinuous Deployment**, get it?!? lol... but seriously, I was
working a lot with **Transmutation** preparing it for a quality developer
experience for contributing and ultimately realized that I want to standardize
my ideals into a standard that I keep across all my projects. So that is what
**KIKD** will do. It will check whether or not the project it is run on is
certified with the heavily opinionated standards that are inspired by the open
source community. I'm by no means an expert, but I like having my own standards
to follow and automate. So this project will provide tools as well as a checking
system to make sure there is some sort of compliance. I'll flesh this out in the
next few sessions in the readme with all my goals.
