# Inception

**Aggro Tactics** is an attempt to create a game where every player has full
omniscience of each players options and must out perform the other player rather
than fall to random chance. **Magic: The Gathering** has been a favorite game of
mine for over a decade now, but seeing scenarios in casual and pro play that are
ruined by random chance has always stung me. I have been seeking to find a game
where failure can't be blamed on chance, but instead on miscalculation so that
players may have clear sight of potential growth. I see many players blame
random chance in their early times, and use that as an excuse to not have to get
better. Many games, including video games, have this element of blame. With full
omniscience the only thing to do is accept that you didn't see it and figure out
how you can see it in the future.


# Inspiration

I was once very fascinated by the skill required in high level **World of
Warcraft** raids that required the balancing of threat and controlling aggro.
Since I've wanted to package the concept of threat management to a one on one
competitive level, rather than trying to optimize against an AI. This is what
started **Aggro Tactics**. Learning to not over commit, learning when to pull
back, and learning to suffer the consequences while maximizing damage output and
minimizing risk are skills that I think can enhance the elasticity of our
problem solving skills. And hence the idea of **Aggro Tactics** was born.


# Gameplay Feature Goals

The following features are highlights of the design of **Aggro Tactics**:

 - Fully omniscient gameplay similar to Chess with no random chance or hidden
   information beyond the decisions of your opponents
 - Simultaneous Asynchronous gameplay inspired by games like **Words with
   Friends**, giving the potential to expand the number of players without
expanding the required wait time
 - Full customization of approach inspired by trading card games like **Magic:
   The Gathering** where one may craft their own "deck"
 - Fully "recorded" gameplay inspired by **Event Sourcing** as a concept in
   **Software Engineering**, enabling, replays, time travel, multiple ways to
represent the gameplay, and full statistical analysis
 - Designed for enjoyment without the need for environment intervention: Playing
   on a flat board with no elevation changes, environmental hazards, or
environmental effects are needed for an enjoyable experience
 - Capture the depth and strategy of action video games like Armored Core, Dark
   Souls, and Monster Hunter where short term anticipation, timing, and
positioning are crucial, but at an accessible turn-like pace of tactics games
 - Removal of "economy" where rarity and value increases the barrier to entry
   and hence reduce the potential growth of the game... resulting in the removal
of randomized boosters, limited runs, collector hoarding, etc.
 - **Pay to Compete or Express** - Full free-to-play digitally for casual play,
   practice, and newcomers, while supported by ways to pay for cosmetic
expression as well as event participation to fund further development
 - Optimized for practice or competition in downtime through its asynchronous
   nature: Made so an older and more responsible generation may partake in the
fun while maintaining their responsibilities
 - Ability to replay, or spectate matches after the fact enables non-live
   spectatorship to encourage esport consumption at a viewers own pace, while
also enabling casting/narration after the fact for growth of the community
 - Enabled paper form play in addition to digital play for tactile interactions
   with other players for game night gatherings, organized events, and pickup
games


# Mechanics Overview

## Aggro or Threat Management

The core inspiring mechanic comes from MMOs like **World of Warcraft**.
**Threat** in those games are used as a way to prioritized targeting for the AI
system. High damage dealing/risky type actions generate lots of **Threat**
forcing the AI to prioritize the target over others. Various classes manage this
threat differently. Some classes generate minor damaging **Threat** but have a ton
of survivability through defense, evasion, life gain, etc. in order to pull
attention off of "squishy" glass cannon damage dealers that generate a lot of
**Threat**. Some classes have ways to reset their **Aggro** wiping away their
threat enough to de-prioritize themselves.

In **Aggro Tactics**, **Threat** both represents how to prioritize a target
based on threat, but also an individual's threat level is a pseudo
representation of adrenaline and initiative to succeed. As actions are taken,
the characters with the most **Threat** act in order of most to least. So
**Warriors** or over-committing **Wizards** generating LOTS of **Threat** will
have first priority in action taking. At the same time, any attacks that cover
or target an area with multiple targets, but only affect a single target will
hit the target with the most **Threat** in the given area. This allows classes
like **Warriors** that are intended to "tank" hits, to pull off protection of
squishier classes like **Wizards**. This double-edged sword mechanic creates
interesting "Threat Management" scenarios where a **Warrior** can raise their
**Threat** suddenly to "shield" a **Wizard** in danger, through gaining
**Aggro** (highest relevant **Threat**) or scenarios where a **Rogue** can drop
**Aggro** to dodge an incoming attack, pushing the damage to a more capable
target like a **Paladin**.


## Hex Board Movement

Characters move around on a Hexagon Grid board and are designated with a
direction that they are facing in. The grid is only a resulting representation
of actions taken, rather than an actual play space. The hex grid makes the
distance between each tile completely equal and predictable when compared to a
square grid. The direction of facing allows relational movement like "forward",
"backward", "forward-left", etc. instead of absolute movement like "Hex 2/3/4"
allowing for the following system:


## Action Timeline

The **Action Timeline** is where you will spend most of your time. The timeline
is a sequence of X cards (5 or 7 or 9, depends on the game settings) that
represents the actions you will take over time. At the start of a game, each
player will lay down their first X actions to fill up the entire timeline. Then
play will proceed by both players flipping their first actions in the sequence,
the character will execute their actions in priority order. At the completion of
all actions, the sequence will move over and the second actions will now become
the next action and each player will place a new action at the end of the
sequence. Play will continue until one player is victorious. Simple as that.

The **Action Timeline** is a pseudo representation of "frames" in a video game.
Players will always be anticipating and adjusting, but once they commit to an
action and add it to the timeline, it cannot be removed or changed by any normal
means.


## Actions

Actions are the bread and butter of the customization and play of **Aggro
Tactics**. Actions can come in the form of movement, attacks, item use, or
"frames". All actions are represented by cards. Because each action represents a
"frame" in the **Action Timeline** some may have requirements that represent
setup/preparation in previous actions or cooldown/recovery in future actions.
For example, a **Large Swing** may require that the two actions prior to it were
blank "frames" resulting in two dead actions for a larger result. "Frames" may
also come in the form of invincibility frames. These frames mean any attacks
that target you will miss completely. So a side step may have a cooldown of an
invincibility frame followed by a blank frame. Properly timing a side step could
avoid a **Large Swing**, or it could be executed too early and result in two
dead frames.

Dealing damage as well as executing the action will affect the character's
**Threat**. For every damage dealt and every movement will gain X **Threat**
(based on the game settings) and every action may add or remove **Threat**.
This constant fluctuation of **Threat** can affect which character has priority
on the next action. This dynamic flow allows for interesting situations like,
increasing threat to gain priority for the next action which results in a stun
on the opposing player or dropping priority in order counter attack.
