# Health Log

## #1

Today I'm changing everything. Over the past few weeks I have had a lot of aches
and pains that hint at something along the lines of a heart attack or stroke.
I'm only 29... I shouldn't have this at all. I'm 5' 6" and 250 lbs....
ridiculously overweight. And up until now I was ok with being just happy. But if
I'm going to succeed... if I'm going to achieve my goals and reach my dreams, I
need to change. My original plans for my DEX methodology was not just about pure
work efficiency, but also about using health as a way to enhance productivity
and baking that into the system to improve not just the development agility, but
the longevity and the efficiency. A healthier body leads to a healthier mind as
a result and I should be able to maximize my output if I take my health into
account. I have failed to do that. I focused on just the work side for the past
year, but now it's time to change that.

When I first started this process of logging my work, I walked... all the time.
Then the winter came and I used the cold as an excuse to not have to walk. "I'll
do it when the winter is over". Yeah, that's just an excuse and I'm ashamed I
did it. So now I'm fixing that. Yesterday we had to go to Urgent Care... the
past few weeks have given me several scares. Enough that a couple days ago I
told myself I'd fix my diet first. But this morning, it is abundantly clear that
that will not be enough. I need to do more. So I'm working on this system.

The idea is that I now have a "heal" script. Like my worklog where I type `log`
and track what I did for work in those 25 minutes of work. Now I will type
`heal` whenever I do anything that propels my health forward. A lazy habit
overcome, healthy food I ate, drinking water even. Anything that helps propel me
forward. This log is not going to be based on time, but quantity. Padding the
numbers is something that I want. Because every little step helps. And logging
is a HUGE thing for me. I always liked blogging, but always wanted structure to
my posts. Worklogs have got me just in the habit of doing things. So now I'm
building this habit of tracking my health approach. It won't be an official food
diary where I can track statistics right now, but the habit forming goal of just
"healing" is important. Instead of tracking "sessions", I will be tracking
"apples" instead. Because an apple away will keep the doctor's away, but that
doesn't mean you won't die in the process. So I want more than just an apple a
day... I want as many as I can fucking push for. Build the better habits and get
a better life... it's time to do that.

Starting with the first... so this is embarrassing, but whatever. I don't stand
in showers... like I like showers, but I sit on the floor and just enjoy the
sort of raining feeling. I'll sit there for too long... typically 30 minutes,
sometimes an hour or longer. I use it as my thinking time and it has made me
lazy. I've been doing it for years... like LOTS of years. So I'm fixing that.
This morning I stood in the shower instead of sat down. Which is small, but
still every little bit counts. So I'm counting this. Padding the numbers is good
in terms of health. Just keep adding. Oh and I only stood for 15 minutes, so
bonus I will actually be gaining a lot of time in my day by doing this. I use
this technique in the shower where I put the fan on for the 30 minute timer to
at least know when 30 mins have passed. Typically I just end up ignoring it, cuz
I'm too lazy to stand up. But now that I am already standing, I'm relieved to
hear the fans turn off after 15 minutes, cuz it means I don't have to stand
there anymore and that relief should be able to help me propel forward and do it
more. Some happiness juice for my brain to build the habit.

All of this work is also going to be in my "company" monorepo. It will be part
of my work as much as it is part of my life. I have to make the change, or I'm
not gonna live long enough to prove the world that I can be awesome. Sure it is
a bit prideful, but fuck the haters, I'm gonna take my life in my own hands. I'm
going to go do 10 minutes of stairs now and several times throughout the day. :P
Then I'll get to some real work after those stairs. Oh and I can drink some
water too. ;)
